# Hands-on IIIF: how to install, configure and prepare simple IIIF services

Workshop at [SWIB](http://swib.org) [2019](http://swib.org/swib19/programme.html).

> In the last years, the International Image Interoperability Framework has
developed into a widespread standard for making digital images of cultural
objects available on the basis of Linked Open Data principles. The aim of this
hands-on workshop is to walk the participants through a complete installation
of a IIIF server in a virtual machine to make images available according to the
IIIF Image API and deliver the corresponding metadata according to the IIIF
Presentation API. Participants can bring up to ten own high-resolution images
of their choice including simple metadata to convert them into the appropriate
IIIF formats during the workshop. The organizers will provide access to
centrally hosted virtual machines for the participants. The hands-on session
starts with a ready-made installation of a basic Linux operating system. During
the workshop all necessary server components will be installed and configured
by the participants. This includes the configuration of web- and proxyservers,
HTTPS and CORS. The provided images will be converted into tiled pyramidal
images. IIIF manifests and collection files will be generated. Each step will
be explained in detail and the participants will receive support in case of
technical difficulties. Finally, participants will install IIIF viewers on
their virtual machines in order to view IIIF images. It will be possible to
access each others IIIF server via HTTPS in order to demonstrate the advantages
of IIIFâ€™s interoperability. Participants should have basic knowledge of Linux,
the shell and SSH. The images should be available under a Creative Commons
license or similar free conditions. Participants should bring their own laptop
with an SSH client preinstalled.
